[ADD] Payroll: adding new reporting doc (#4219)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/payroll/reporting.rst

variety of parameters. Click the :guilabel:`Measures` box and a drop-down will appear with the
various options to display. The options available are: # Payslip, Basic Wage, Basic Wage for Time
Off, Days of Paid Time Off, Days of Unforeseen Absence, Days of Unpaid Time Off, Gross Wage, Net
Wage, Number of Days, Number of Hours, Work Days, Work Hours, and Count.

.. image:: reporting/measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Bar chart
~~~~~~~~~

To display the data in a bar chart, click on the :guilabel:`Bar Chart` icon (first icon) in the menu
bar.

.. image:: reporting/bar-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

When this is selected, an option to display the chart as stacked appears. Click the middle
:guilabel:`Stacked` icon to view the bar chart in a stacked format (where multiple values appear in
each column). An option to display the columns in ascending or descending order appears at the end
of the options.

.. tip::
   Clicking an option will enable it. To disable the option, click it again. When the option is
   enabled it will appear grey. When it is inactive, it will appear white.

Line chart
~~~~~~~~~~

> A line chart is the default view for the *Payroll Analysis* report. If a different view was

Author: I went in order of the icons, going left to right, which is why I did the order you see. But I agree with your suggestion- rearranging this section.

=========
Reporting
=========

The :guilabel:`Reporting` section offers a variety of reports to choose from. The
:guilabel:`Payroll`, :guilabel:`Meal Vouchers`, :guilabel:`Attachment of Salary`, and
:guilabel:`DMFA` reports are universal and available for all companies regardless of location, while

> the rest of the reports are specific to Belgium only.

Reviewer: Not sure if it's necessary, but it might be good to mention the Belgium-specific reports by name.

> To view a report, go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting` and click on the specific report to
> view.

Reviewer: Remove redundancy
```suggestion
To view a report, go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting` and click on the specific report.
```

.. image:: reporting/reports.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

If a report is unavailable to a company, a user error will pop up, stating “You must be logged in a
Belgian company to use this feature.” Click :guilabel:`OK` or the small x in the top right corner to

> close the warning.

Reviewer: I don't think it's necessary to tell users how to close pop-up windows.

> The *Filters* and *Favorites* options appear for all reports in the top right. At the top of the
> individual report, click on :guilabel:`Filters` to display the optional filters for the specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of each report, click on :guilabel:`Filters` to display the optional filters for the specific
```

> report. All reports have an option to add a custom filter. Each report will have different default
> custom filter options. Select the parameters, then click the :guilabel:`Apply` smart button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
report. All reports have the option to add a custom filter, and each will have different default
custom filter options. Select the parameters, then click the :guilabel:`Apply` smart button.
```

.. image:: reporting/custom-filter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Clicking on :guilabel:`Favorites` allows for three options: save the current search, add the search

> to the dashboard, or insert the search to a Google spreadsheet.

Reviewer: The three options should be formatted with GUI labels since they can be clicked.

.. image:: reporting/favorites.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Favorite options for reports.

Payroll
-------

Clicking on :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting --> Payroll` will display the *Payroll Analysis*
report.

.. image:: reporting/payroll-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

> This will display all the payslips generated in the last 365 days. This report can display
> metrics for a variety of parameters. Click the :guilabel:`Measures` box and a drop down will appear

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will show all the payslips generated in the last 365 days. The report can display
metrics for a variety of parameters. Click the :guilabel:`Measures` box and a drop-down will appear
```

> with all the various options to display. The options available are: # Payslip, Basic Wage, Basic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the various options to display. The options available are: # Payslip, Basic Wage, Basic
```

Wage for Time Off, Days of Paid Time Off, Days of Unforeseen Absence, Days of Unpaid Time Off, Gross
Wage, Net Wage, Number of Days, Number of Hours, Work Days, Work Hours, and Count.

.. image:: reporting/measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Bar chart
~~~~~~~~~

> To display the data in a bar chart, click on the :guilabel:`Bar Chart` icon (first icon)in the menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To display the data in a bar chart, click on the :guilabel:`Bar Chart` icon (first icon) in the menu
```

bar.

.. image:: reporting/bar-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

> When this option is selected, an option to display the chart as stacked appears. Click the middle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When this is selected, an option to display the chart as stacked appears. Click the middle
```

:guilabel:`Stacked` icon to view the bar chart in a stacked format (where multiple values appear in
each column). An option to display the columns in ascending or descending order appears at the end
of the options.

.. tip::

>    Clicking an option will enable the option. To disable it, click the option again. When the option
>    is enabled it will appear grey, when it is inactive, it will appear white.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Clicking an option will enable it. To disable the option, click it again. When the option
   is enabled it will appear grey. When it is inactive, it will appear white.
```

Line chart
~~~~~~~~~~

A line chart is the default view for the *Payroll Analysis* report. If a different view was
selected, click on the :guilabel:`Line Chart` icon (last icon) in the menu bar to change the view
back to a line chart. An option to display the line chart in ascending or descending order appears
at the end of the options.

.. image:: reporting/line-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Pie chart
~~~~~~~~~

To display the data in a pie chart, click on the :guilabel:`Pie Chart` icon (last icon) in the menu
bar. There are no other options available in this view.

.. image:: reporting/pie-chart.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Lower half chart
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The bottom half of the screen presents a graph no matter which measures are selected for the main
chart. The default information displayed is the number of payslips, net wage, gross wage, days of

> paid time off, and days of unpaid time off. The information is divided by the department. To display
> more information on the report, click on the :guilabel:`Measures` drop down, and click on any other
> items to display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paid time off, and days of unpaid time off. The information is divided by department. To display
more information on the report, select the :guilabel:`Measures` drop-down, then click on any other
items to display.
```

.. image:: reporting/measures-bottom.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

> To sort the entires by a specific column, such as *Net Wage*, click on the column name twice. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To sort the entries by a specific column, such as *Net Wage*, click on the column name twice. The
```

first click will select the column, the second click will sort the information in descending order.

.. image:: reporting/net-wage.png
   :align: center
   :alt: To sort information by descending order, click the column head twice.

> To export the data in an xlsx format, click the :guilabel:`Download xlsx` icon. The information will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export the data in an XLSX format, click the :guilabel:`Download xlsx` icon. The information will
```

be downloaded into an Excel spreadsheet.

.. image:: reporting/export.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Download an Excel spreadsheet of the data by clicking the download button.

> The data can be inserted in a spreadsheet by clicking the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` smart
> button. A pop up will appear asking which spreadsheet to place the information. Select an existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data can be inserted into a spreadsheet by clicking the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` smart
button. A pop-up will appear asking which spreadsheet to place the information in. Select an existing
```

spreadsheet or enter the name for a new spreadsheet. Click the :guilabel:`Confirm` smart button to
move to a spreadsheet view with all the information populated.

.. image:: reporting/spreadsheet.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Send the data to a spreadsheet.

Once in the spreadsheet view, click on :guilabel:`File`, then select :guilabel:`Save` to save the

> data, or :guilabel:`Save as Template` to use the current template in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data, or :guilabel:`Save as Template` to save the settings as a template to use in the future.
```

Meal Vouchers
-------------

> :guilabel:`Meal Vouchers` provides an overview of  the meal vouchers used by employees, and can be
> shown by day, week, month, quarter, or year. The default view is by month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Meal Vouchers` provides an overview of the meal vouchers used by employees, and can be
shown by day, week, month, quarter, or year. The default view is by month.
```

.. image:: reporting/meal-vouchers.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Meal voucher

To change the displayed view, click on :guilabel:`Total`. The data will collapse, showing only the
count column. Click on :guilabel:`Total` again, then hover over *Day*, then click on one of the
other time-period options available.

.. image:: reporting/voucher-day.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Meal voucher

> It is possible to compare the meal voucher report to the previous time period currently displayed,
> or the previous year. To view these comparisons, click on the on the :guilabel:`Comparison` drop
> down at the top, then select either :guilabel:`Date: Previous Period` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to compare the current meal voucher report to the one for the previous time period
or the previous year. To view these comparisons, click on the on the :guilabel:`Comparison` drop-down at the top, then select either :guilabel:`Date: Previous Period` or
```

:guilabel:`Date: Previous Year`.

.. image:: reporting/meal-comparison.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Meal voucher

> To export the data in an xlsx format, click the :guilabel:`Download xlsx` icon. The information will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To export the data in an XLSX format, click the :guilabel:`Download xlsx` icon. The information will
```

be downloaded into an Excel spreadsheet.

.. image:: reporting/voucher-download.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Download an Excel spreadsheet of the data by clicking the download button.

> The data can be inserted in a spreadsheet by clicking the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` smart
> button. A pop up will appear asking which spreadsheet to place the information. Select an existing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data can be inserted into a spreadsheet by clicking the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` smart
button. A pop-up will appear asking which spreadsheet to place the information in. Select an existing
```

spreadsheet or enter the name for a new spreadsheet. Click the :guilabel:`Confirm` smart button to
move to a spreadsheet view with all the information populated.

Once in the spreadsheet view, click on :guilabel:`File`, then select :guilabel:`Save` to save the

> data, or :guilabel:`Save as Template` to use the current template in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data, or :guilabel:`Save as Template` to save the settings as a template to use in the future.
```

Attachment of Salary
--------------------

The :guilabel:`Attachment of Salary` report shows all deductions or allocations per employee,
such as child support payments and wage garnishments.

.. image:: reporting/attachment-of-salary.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View the Attachment of Salary report that shows all salary garnishments.

> The employees are listed in the left side column, while the different deductions are listed in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The employees are listed in the left-side column, while the different deductions are listed in the
```

top row, organized by month.

> The report can be exported as a xlsx file, or inserted into a spreadsheet, using the corresponding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The report can be exported as a XLSX file, or inserted into a spreadsheet, using the corresponding
```

smart buttons at the top.

> Clicking on the :guilabel:`Measures` smart button wil show the options of
> data to display. Assignment of salary, attachment of salary, child support, and count, can all be
> selected or deselected by clicking on the item. If an item has a check mark, it will be displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on the :guilabel:`Measures` smart button will show options for
how the data is displayed. Assignment of salary, attachment of salary, child support, and count can all be
selected or deselected by clicking on the item. If an item has a check mark, it will be displayed.
```

.. image:: reporting/attachment-measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Select the options that be displayed in the report.

> The salary attachment  can be compared to the previous time period or the previous year. To view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The salary attachment report can be compared to the one for the previous time period or the previous year. To view
```

> these comparisons, click on the on the :guilabel:`Comparison` drop down at the top, then selec

Reviewer: ```suggestion
these comparisons, click on the on the :guilabel:`Comparison` drop-down at the top, then select
```

=========
Reporting
=========

The :guilabel:`Reporting` section of the *Payroll* app offers a variety of reports to choose from.
The :guilabel:`Payroll`, :guilabel:`Meal Vouchers`, :guilabel:`Attachment of Salary`, and
:guilabel:`DMFA` reports are universal and available for all companies regardless of location. The
:guilabel:`Paid Time Off Allocation`, :guilabel:`273S Sheet`, and :guilabel:`274.XX Sheets` reports
are specific to Belgian companies only.

To view a report, go to :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting` and click on the specific report.

.. image:: reporting/reports.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

> If a report is unavailable to a company, a user error pops up, stating “You must be logged in to a
> Belgian company to use this feature.”

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: would do backticks for an on-screen warning like this.
```suggestion
If a report is unavailable to a company, a user error pops up, stating `You must be logged in to a
Belgian company to use this feature.`
```

At the top of each report, click on :guilabel:`Filters` to display the optional filters for the
specific report. Filters show information that matches the specific filter parameters. For example,

> when selecting the :guilabel:`Last 365 Day Payslip` filter, only payslips for the last 265 days

Reviewer 2: typo
```suggestion
when selecting the :guilabel:`Last 365 Day Payslip` filter, only payslips for the last 365 days
```

appear. All reports have the option to add a custom filter, and each have different default custom
filter options. Select the parameters, then click the :guilabel:`Apply` button.

.. image:: reporting/custom-filter.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

Clicking on :guilabel:`Favorites` displays three options: :guilabel:`Save the current search`,
:guilabel:`Add the search to the dashboard`, or :guilabel:`Insert the search to a Google
spreadsheet`.

.. image:: reporting/favorites.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Favorite options for reports.

Payroll
-------

> Clicking on :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting --> Payroll` displays the *Payroll Analysis*
> report.

Reviewer 2: - simple present > continuous present
- dashboard gets a gui here imo since it's the outcome of an active instruction and we're not referring to it indirectly.

```suggestion
Click on :menuselection:`Payroll --> Reporting --> Payroll` to display the :guilabel:`Payroll
Analysis` report.
```

.. image:: reporting/payroll-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

This shows all the payslips generated in the last 365 days. The report can display metrics for a
variety of parameters. Click the :guilabel:`Measures` box to view a drop-down menu with the various
options to display. The options available include: :guilabel:`# Payslip`, :guilabel:`Basic Wage`,
:guilabel:`Basic Wage for Time Off`, :guilabel:`Days of Paid Time Off`, :guilabel:`Days of
Unforeseen Absence`, :guilabel:`Days of Unpaid Time Off`, :guilabel:`Gross Wage`, :guilabel:`Net
Wage`, :guilabel:`Number of Days`, :guilabel:`Number of Hours`, :guilabel:`Work Days`,

> :guilabel:`Work Hours`, and :guilabel:`Count`.

Reviewer 2: would list these out in a bullet list and define them

Reviewer 2: omitting, can do later.

.. image:: reporting/measures.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report dashboard view.

> Line chart

Reviewer 2: suggestion: for the three chart options here we can use [content tabs](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_cheat_sheet.html#content-tabs)

Reviewer 2: omitting, can do later.
